<id>942</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>4</star><review>what is noteworthy about the telling of the story , is how earnest and real their situation is , and how magnificently graceful the actors are , slowly revealing the sore points and tender sides of their troubled souls . the subplots that develop connect somehow with the main characters in an effortless way . it seems whatever you do in modern alaska , you have to hurt someone or something , whether intentionally or not . the ending of the film is problematic and inconclusive , though it seems apparent that they are doomed . many viewers will be disappointed that there is no payoff in the story . the film was well served by a capable cast ; and , even if , its story bit off a lot of ground to chew , a lot more than it was capable of fully digesting ( too many topics from environmental issues to dysfunctional families ) , it was still good storytelling . but it did try to get too clever with the plot allowing every angle of the character's problems to fit too nicely together-- there was too much of a parallel symbolism of the castaways relating to their three lives that was too neat for its own good . but this is topped by thought provoking storytelling , one that was visually stunning as well as accomplished with mature dialogue . the film didn't always work , as melodramatics seemed to take away from the tremendous drive the story had on its own merits as a straight romantic tale . but what kept it compelling was the human drama , that made me want to think that the trio had found something on their journey that they didn't realize that they had before . though the unresolved ending to the film might bother some viewers , that of being in a state of limbo is not the worst way in which to end a film , especially one where the storytelling itself is the aspect of the film that veers from guarded hope to fatalism , where each of the characters is seen on this deserted island as not being able to run away from their problems anymore . </review>
<id>943</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>4</star><review>this emotionally moving film will look into that and will also examine the heart aches of two working class girls , doing it in a way only the french can do it justice . isa is someone we think we know but really don't , as she is prone to be friendly and willing to make relationships , opening her dark saucer eyes wide and offering an engaging smile full of her milky white teeth to go along with her warm personality and trim look of close-cropped black hair ; but , we are , also , distracted by a mysterious scar she has on her right eyebrow , which is never explained . there is a classic look of disgust on the face of isa , that seems to be saying , you are really sick , when she finally realizes that she has to move on from here . the performances of the two actresses was bewitching , as the two women deservedly shared best actress honors last year at cannes . the poignancy and merits of the film , are in depicting accurately the reality of the girls' lives . it is a film without one false note of sympathy or sentimentality in it . this is not the type of a girl-buddy movie as seen in some hollywood films of late , filled with glibness and glitter and canned experiences . here , what happens has the ring of truth to it and is powerful in the sense that its simple telling of the tale , without trying to be cute or pedantic , turns out to be profound . this debut film for the 42-year-old director , done with the austerity of a master , reminiscent of someone like a robert bresson , is a work of considerable merit . it is a film that not only depicted the shattering of a friendship and a realistic look at life for the working class , but it probed into the deep seated loneliness found within each of the girls , looking at it in a poetic way . </review>
<id>944</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>4</star><review>now this is an indie cult film , if ever there was one . they sell both bibles and guns , two contrasting products that fit very well into the mainstream of american society , makes for a most interesting commentary on the american landscape , as directed and written by the south african , daniel j . harris . this b/w , gritty film , is so well-paced and flies by so quickly , that you feel you know these men in the short time span you meet them and you don't want the film to end before you find out just what happens to them , as things begin to turn sour for them . this unique film , in the style of the maysles brother's the salesmen , packs a wallop and a sales pitch that goes beyond the ordinary pseudo-documentary and improvisational work . the theme of the film is really geared for the 1960s in psychology , in the music played and in the dress and style of the salesmen . but were're in the '90s all right and that only adds weight to the idea that these men are really dead already but they just don't know it . these very repulsive reactionary types are so-well caught on camera , as they go from reading the script to ad libbing without missing a beat , in fact the unrehearsed scenes have a special flair about them that is macabre . one of the really powerful scenes , is the opening one when they are selling the collectors' edition bible set and a defender 500 pump-action shotgun in a trailer , it is almost unnerving that they keep a straight face when they say to the poor whites they are selling this to , " the american family deserves to be well-armed and well-read . " the director seems to imply , isn't that what america is about , anyway . they sold me on this film . these " stars " certainly bring a level of authenticity to the film that is uniquely satifsying . this , suprisingly enough , is a not to be missed film , if you can ever locate it on cable . </review>
<id>945</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>4</star><review>this is a dogma 95 styled film , where the danish filmmaker's group manifesto determines the rules for how the film is to be made . the idea is to give their films a fresh look and for them to provide the unexpected , and to catch on film the complete truth from its characters and their situations . this film was shot with a small video camera ( a sony pc7 ) that fits in the palm of your hand , then it is transferred to the prescribed dogma 35-millimeter format . i suppose it is fair to assume that one of the reasons that this manifesto was drawn up in 1995 by four danish filmmakers--christian levring , soren kragh-jacobsen , thomas vinterberg , and lars von trier-- was to give them publicity and challenge the film community to create innovative films . so far the only two films i saw from this group , von trier's the idiots & breaking the waves , have been challenging and impressive films . for those interested in what their dogma document actually states , i give you the following example : " 2 . the sound must never be produced apart from the image or vice versa . any movement or immobility attainable in the hand is permitted . the film must be in color . special lighting is not acceptable . ( if there is too little light for exposure , the scene must be cut or a single lamp [must] be attached to the camera . ) " 6 . the film must not contain superficial action . is to say that the film takes place here and now . ) " 8 . genre movies are not acceptable . " 10 . the director must not be credited . " furthermore , i swear as a director to refrain from personal taste ! i am no longer an artist . i swear to refrain from creating a 'work , ' as i regard the instant as more important than the whole . my supreme goal is to force the truth out of my characters and settings . i swear to do so by all the means available and at the cost of any good taste and any aesthetic considerations . " rules like that rub me the wrong way . what i ask from a film , is for it to be imaginative and well-made , and i don't particularly care how the filmmaker accomplishes that . it would be impossible to go into the minute details of the film without immeasurably spoiling it for the viewer who hasn't seen the film . my pleasure in seeing it was that i was caught completely unaware of what was to occur and that shock kept me absorbed in the story , not quite knowing what to expect next . this might be the secret reason why the film worked so well , as i was made to feel like one of the guests in this theatrical film . the result of the film was exhilerating , dogma or not , it is a work that is scathing , penetrating layers of deceit and festering wounds that cannot be healed . but it was to no avail . to point out how the guests weren't quite sure of anything that was happening there , they are shown eating lobster , or salmon , or tomato soup , each one unsure of what they were served . the celebration is indeed a celebration not to be forgotten soon . it drains the emotions , somehow satisfies the intellect , and challenges the conventions of the usual fare of sophisticated family drama . vinterberg declares how the impact of helge's revelation affected everyone in the immediate family , and how that acted as a cleansing for the tribe , something that was essential for their psyches . at least , they now have some kind of a shot of pulling themselves together , even though the film does not show any of them changing internally . and how the film accomplished this , was through good storytelling , where one doesn't need any false constraints , something that is reminiscent of greek tragedy or shakespearean drama . </review>
<id>946</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>4</star><review>his bust on the rock , he says , signifies that , " i was the rock and the rock was me . " the visionary dream is evocative of the music he created for the 1st movement of the third sympathy , as it is heard and interpreted by russell in a way that is highly complimentary to a composer whom he obviously admires , flawed personality , not withstanding . what gives the film force and a sense of inspired madness , and makes this a work the musical aficionado might question regarding its authenticity but the film buff might applaud for its richness of visuals , are a few very inventive scenes . the conversion scene becomes the most powerful and outlandish one in the film , as it is filmed as if were a silent movie changing to a talkie at the moment of the conversion . this scene comes on so strong as to drown out any other attempt by russell to have a more subdued film than he usually shoots for . he will then eat the non-kosher pig meat and drink a glass of milk with it , completing his conversion . always insecure and troubled , never happy , always irritable and petulant , a most unpleasant person , and a sexist ; but , a musical genius , is the impression of mahler that russell convincingly leaves us with . as mahler , in despite of his pettiness , bravely tells his wife , choose between me and max , but do not choose me because of duty , duty always destroys . but it is the music of mahler that is refreshingly digested , admittedly a music for acquired tastes , but a music that i most heartily appreciated , that gives the film its resonance . the film also plays like visconti's death in venice gone astray , where homo-erotic shots are coupled with coarse hetero-sexual shots . which result for russell , a director who has proven himself to be a music lover , who knows how to be flamboyant and controversial , into making a film that was very impressive . though the film , like mahler's music , is clearly not for everyone . </review>
<id>48</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>1</star><review>for three quarters of the film , an exciting , somewhat plausible thriller takes place , that is even occasionally intriguing . then it comes apart and turns into routine hollywood , cop-out stuff . as a result , this film wastes splendid acting jobs by clint , ed , and scott . it is no mystery to the audience , because they saw exactly what happened . it is watchable hokum , with a hardly credible story , getting by solely on solid acting jobs from the leads . the script calls for no bold statements about the politics of the white house , which makes the film rather weak in scope and purpose . yet , the film is bearable , fortunate to be in the hands of someone as deft as clint ; or else , with a lesser director , it could have certainly sunk to an abysmally lower level , though one wouldn't be far wrong thinking it has already sunk to that level . </review>
<id>49</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>1</star><review>this well-conceived but ultra sugary coming-of-age film is not for everyone , and i include myself as one of those who found it too sappy for my digestion . loggia is wonderful in relating to the child in such a wholesome manner , it almost saves this film from drowning in syrup . the beals are like a sitcom idyllic family , where everyone is just so nice and affluent , and properly religious without being fanatical . all this mawkish interplay makes it almost too nauseating to watch . his answer is to search for god , pretty heady stuff for a youngster his age to do , but that's just the way it is , sometimes . now , that's a smart kid . maybe that's for another film down the road . this part of the film was the final straw for me , i couldn't swallow any more goo . as this film flopped commercially , his next one , the sixth sense , pared down the schmaltz and came up smelling like a rose . though if you look through the cleverness of both scripts , this director is loaded with hokum , all he has learned how to do , is hide the hokum better . this is a nice family picture and there is room for it in hollywood . it's just too bad that it had nothing relevent or even truthful to say about death , children in a parochial elementary school , or for that matter , about god . and that family of his , they're too good for words . yet the film meant well and its benign message had its heart in the right place . for those who want to see something soft , without a bite to it , this is the one . </review>
<id>50</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>1</star><review>celebrity is like an amalgam of old woody allen materials , which has always given him an opening to concentrate on being witty and ignoring such filmmaking details as editing and plot . this fluff film ( no pretense at ingmar bergman depths here ) could have been funny but it isn't , except in brief spots . as far as being insightful about the " horses arses " who are into being celebrities without any other accomplishments to their credit , there's not really too much to be said that could be profound about that subject matter , it is obvious how shallow a fate just being a celebrity is . woody makes a stronger statement in the film's subplot that deals with love , as he believes that meeting the right mate is mostly a matter of luck . here kenneth branagh is not woody allen , but he plays woody and it doesn't work out that well . he's just not funny , all he's got down pat are woody's voice inflections and neurotic gestures . it's as if he is a robot who looks the part but can't really be the part because he is isn't humanly programed that way . if woody played that scene , it most probably would have been funny , but with branaugh , it seemed pathetically flat and unfunny . donald trump is buying st . patrick's cathedral and tearing-it-down for a skyscraper . celebrities give trite comments to banal questions , such as , " what do you think of the rain ? " " it's really something ! " the beautifully shot b/w film ends as it begins , as a plane passes overhead with the skywriting word " help ! " this was a film that had no idea how to put this story together , it seemed so lifeless and flat , indeed , in need of help . for starters , none of the main characters were cast right , and especially branaugh : there's no way , no matter how exact his mimicry of woody is , that he can be thought of as a neurotic , nebbish , nyc jew . what was needed was some originality and some energy into making the characters appear absurdly funny and not carbon copy imitations of how celebrities are . the few jokes in the film were far and few between , and could not overcome the tired feeling emanating from the rambling story . woody is slipping , his last few films have been heading on a steady downward path . </review>
<id>51</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>1</star><review>joseph ruben ( sleeping with the enemy/the stepfather/gorp/the good son ) has directed a lot of films that are just plain awful , as you could see from those mentioned above , except for the adequately made swte . he directed this predictable drama with a heavy hand as it lapses into melodramatics after a very emotionally moving start and after presenting a most interesting premise ; it is just too bad that the script had no conviction to follow through on its premise . the weakness of the film can be found in the director's lack of courage in understanding what a decision like this really entails to the person involved , and by making the film all about the anne heche character instead of focusing mainly on the two boys , as the film loses its sense of direction . by adding sidebars to the simple premise , it changes the question considerably and takes the edge off what decision is made . the director spoon feeds the answer that he thinks the audience wants , and it all seems to be a predictable formula driven film instead of one filled with a raw energy . after mid-film , any logical attempt at soul searching for what to do was lost in a series of obvious contrivances and clich ? s that were displeasing to watch . bad directors do such things to good ideas . heche is intense and persistent , not letting up on the less than eager sheriff to make such a commitment . here the story gets side-tracked for bad reasons . the only scene that made sense from this point on in the story , was the one where tony's fianc ? e ( vera ) asks some intelligent questions of the lawyer and fails to illicit responses that would make me want to go back . who in their right mind would unquestionably believe what beth is saying ? that is too easy a reason . heroes usually don't know if they are going to be heroes , they just do what is right at the moment . it is instinctual . in this case , from what i have seen of beth's direct confrontational approach , as difficult as it might be to say no , i think most people in tony's shoes would have no choice but refuse her request . at least , it does for tony . the scene of lewis in the malaysian jail , which is actually a jail cell in the philadelphia prison system , of him rambling on incoherently , complaining about the cell being godless , i thought , more than being good acting , smacked of melodrama and was not a very convincing portrayal of someone going over the edge ; but , it was scary . i just wonder how many would honestly go back to save lewis if they were in tony's shoes or in sheriff's shoes . i also wonder how good this film could have been in the hands of a fritz lang or even an elia kazan , or a modern director such as a martin scorsese . and that is the shame of this somber picture , it failed to move me and seemed to turn into a slight story , and this is after all its contrivances . </review>
<id>52</id><reviewer>A</reviewer><star>1</star><review>passion ( director/writer : jean-luc godard ; cinematographer : raoul coutard ; cast : isabelle huppert ( isabelle ) , hanna schygulla ( hanna ) , michel piccoli ( michel ) , jerzy radziwilowicz ( jerzy ) , 1982-fr . ) i have never warmed up to godard films ; i always found them pretentious and only mildly diverting . i have not seen a film of his since the '70s that i particularly cared for . so i looked at passion , a film about his love of politics , art , and filmmaking with a slightly jaundiced eye , and i was not disappointed . i still don't like his style , or his rejection of a linear story for a rambling dialogue that misses more often than it hits the mark . what i thought he did exceedingly well in this work , was have the cinematography for the film within a film , enhance in a very elegant manner the film's costumed and mannered scenes , allowing them to shine as colorful spectacles , and by making good use of the actual paintings by incorporating them into the film , using such artist's works as , el greco , rembrandt , rubens , delacroix , and ingres . the story in a nutshell is about a polish director trying to make a film on a shoestring budget , while courting the elusive isabelle huppert and the plain-spoken hannah schygulla , and fighting with the producers who want the film to have a logical story . godard has made a film about searching for something to love by showing that love is something that is essential to keep you in balance amid the chaos of one's life and the outside turmoils of war and class struggle . hannah says , in a moment of deep reflection , " sometimes i love what i don't like . " ummm ! an intriguing and provocative thought by godard , though i am not exactly sure what he means . but it is thoughts like this , that make me keep coming back to see godard films . for me , there is only one basic rule for the cinema , make an intellectually sound , honestly done and lucid film . i think i'm on a collision course with messier godard , though his ideas on making a film , such as passion , and my ideas , will sometimes result in only near collisions . i admittedly find some of his premises provoking , which is why this film , has enough intellectual stimulation in it for me not to loathe it , just to feel unsatisfied by all its unfulfilled promise . </review>
